Dr. Ciattoni:

Good Day;
I am a third year student at Trinity College Dublin focusing on plant sciences. I had previous laboratory experience during secondary school in bacterial transformation and transplantation, and sample preparation for RT-qPCR as a part of an initiative held jointly by iGEM team Greatbay_China, Bluepha Co. Ltd. and student science societies at Shenzhen College of International Education to broaden outreach of synthetic biology to secondary level students. My role in this initiative was to facilitate the participation of ~15 students from the Anatomy and Physiology society which I chaired. I became interested in synthetic metabolic pathways after discussing with members of the Greatbay_China team about their project producing plant secondary metabolites in a prokaryotic system. I later appreciated the use of transcriptomics and systems biology to infer the structure of metabolic pathways and their evolutionary context, and came to appreciate that many of the works in this field were published by German institutions, and that German researchers were able to produce wonderful innovations in protein and metabolic engineering such as the CETCH cycle. My university education in plant physiology had shed me further light on the defensive regulation of plant metabolism in reaction to microbial and herbivory stress. My ecology coursework introduced me to the logistics explosion of plant microparasites infection to its terminal phase, which, since my parents are both of rural background and a significant part of my extended family are dependent on farming, is not unfamiliar to me in context. It is therefore exciting when I learnt advances in protein engineering is beginning to show potential to disrupt gene-for-gene virulence in specialist plant pathogens such as the citrus greening disease HLB, which was the culprit to rise in poverty in my hometown region in southern Jiangxi. I had the fortune to pursue education that could prepare me to help people and the planet by understanding the complex relationships between plants, pathogens and the environment, and so to help them is the ends I wish to achieve. It is out of these considerations that I am applying for the intern position in plant immunity at your institution.

Sincerely,
Jiayan.
