# 20251120

## plant physio
Viral cooperation with herbivore
* Cannot defend simutaneously against microbial pathogens and herbivores?

Volatiles are reduced in plants attacked by herbivores below ground except undecane
* Closing of stomata
* Change in transcription profile?

Turgor pressure of guard cells change

Synchronium of abiotic and biotic stressors
* WCR drought scenario not understood

Benzosasanoids mitigate heavy metal poisoning possibly by altering microbial community possibly by binding directly

Less P means NADPH accumulation

All stressess responses seem to represent oscillators?

Membranes go frome crystalline to gel to ripple to fluid as temp increase

Morphogenesis of aerenchyma occurs in anaerobic stress

ubiquintination and phosphorylation in stress response cascades

inference trees

## Anthro

Agricultural boom circa 6000ya bp has \


H/Gatheres space out births by 2-3 years due to migration
Sedentism removes migration pressure hence 

Agricultural bust in Europe at circa 5300ya bp
    Drop in discovered artifects (edge et al 2019)
    Return of forest cover in pollen archives
Reasons?
    Disease?
    Social reshuffling?
    Depletion of soil?
    Migration?


Tracing Agri spead
    Look at:
    Archaelogical evidence
    Ecological evidence
    Population movement (Linguistics, ancient DNA)
    
Sex bias:
Polynesia
Back-to-Africa

Do you see the Kalmyks? The pink pie they're mongolians in russia

Yamnaya culture

Admixture with Denisovans helps Tibetans adapt to hypoxia by inhibiting RBC increase and risk of clotting
    Example of adaptive introgression
    
Indiscreptancy between Molecular clock inference of out-of-Africa and discovery of anatomically modern humans out of Africa (70-50 vs ~200 kabp)

Disadvantages in the previous groups?
Advantages in the later group?
    Social-linguistic change?
    Genetic switch?
    


